#####============================================================================================ 
#####Coursera "Getting and Cleaning Data" course project  
Summary Dataset in Tidy form derived from original features
in the original dataset of Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset version 1.0

For more details about the original experiment and dataset refer to the
UCI HAR Dataset
The smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
www.smartlab.ws

Additional information about the sensors can be found in
http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/sensors/sensors_overview.html
#####============================================================================================ 


**Each summary dataset record contains the following columns:**

- Activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.
- A 66-feature vector comprised of **averages** of the original features of time and frequency domain for variable names ending with '-std()' or '-mean()'  

**The dataset includes the following files:**
#####============================================================================================ 

- 'README.md'  

- 'CodeBook.md' : Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.

- 'X_tidy.txt'  : The summary dataset in tidy form

- 'run_summary' : R script to genrate the X_tidy.txt dataset

**Dataset Generation and Transformations** 
#####============================================================================================ 
The original *_test and *_train files were combined as follows:

- The data in file X_ were combined:   

     - 'X_train.txt': Training set.  
     - 'X_test.txt': Test set.  

- The activity index in files y_ were combined  

     - 'y_train.txt': Training labels.
     - 'y_test.txt': Test labels.

- The subjects identification files where combined  
     - 'subject_train.txt'   
     - 'subject_test.txt' 

- The feature variable names where read from 'features.txt' and transformed as described below in Notes.

- A descriptive activity lablels were generated by indexing the activity_labels table, read from 'activity_labels.txt' file.  

- The columns of interest where extracted and combined: activity, subject, features of interest ('_std' or '_mean')

- Finally the tidy dataset X_tidy.txt was generated  
    - grouping by activity , subject    
    - summarised by the mean of the variable    
    - The final dataset was saved using write.table  
    write.table(format(X_tidy,scientific=TRUE),"X_tidy.txt",quote = FALSE,row.names=FALSE,col.names=TRUE)  
    Note: we force scientific format no quoting of variables and no row names   
 
Notes: 
#####============================================================================================  
- Features are selected from the original feature vector if the variable name ends with '-std()' or '-mean()'.  
- The feature name is transformed eliminating the '()' and replacing all '-' with a more standard underscore '_' symbol.  
- Each row on the dataset text file shows the desciptive activity, the subject and the average of the feature vector.  
- The dataset is grouped and sorted by 'activity' then by 'subject', so for each activity list all subjects and their averaged feature vector.  

